[MUSIC PLAYING]
>>LISA GARR: Have you ever
traveled to a new place
and immediately tapped
into its unique energy?
Or have you ever met
someone for the first time
and felt an instant connection?
These are the types of
experiences that my guest has
had her entire life.
And instead of being afraid
and hiding these gifts,
for the past 30
years Sonja Grace
has written and spoken
about her experiences
and shared them with the world.
Hi, I'm Lisa Garr.
And joining me is Sonja Grace.
She's the author of
"Spirit Traveler,"
"Become an Earth Angel,"
and her latest book,
"Dancing with Raven and Bear."
Sonja considers herself an
energy surgeon whose spirit
travels to work with people
doing energy clearings
and long-distance healings.
Welcome, my friend.
>>SONJA GRACE:
Thank you so much.
>>LISA: So great
to have you here.
>>GRACE: I know, I'm
thrilled to be here with you.
>>LISA: Me too.
So tell me a little bit
about your past growing up?
It was an eclectic background
that you have here.
>>GRACE: Yeah, I
was born in Oregon
and I was raised on a farm.
And my experience of
seeing, hearing, smelling,
and feeling the spirit
realm has always been.
I was born that way.
But my earliest memory
was at two years old.
And my mom used
to tell the story
that I would roll the
crib across the room
and hit the door so she
would come and get me.
And I thought about
it and I went,
how is that possible that
I could roll the crib?
Those cribs are really heavy.
And my memory is looking
up and seeing my guides
on both sides of the crib
rolling it across the floor.
>>LISA: You remember
this at two?
>>GRACE: I remember
distinctly seeing them.
>>LISA: The freakier thing is
your mom walking in the door
and the crib's across the room.
I couldn't imagine as
a parent seeing that.
You put your baby
to bed over here,
and now the child is over here.
What did she say later?
>>GRACE: My mom,
she really had a lot
to deal with me because
I was so out there.
I saw the spirit realm.
And she would be
really nice about it
and say, oh, honey,
that's a nice story or,
why don't you go to
the woods and play?
And I literally grew
up in the woods.
I played, I saw the Devic
Realm, I saw all the spirits
of the trees and the plants.
It was my home.
And my mom eventually
corralled me into,
OK, she's very artistic,
let's put her in ballet class.
So I trained as a
classical ballerina.
>>LISA: Did you have siblings?
>>GRACE: Yes, I have
three older sisters.
>>LISA: Wow.
And did they see
these types of beings?
>>GRACE: I think they're all
sensitive in their own way.
But I seemingly am
the one in the family
who got the full package deal.
>>LISA: Well at
least your mother
knew enough to
enhance those and not
put you into traditional
school or something that
would put you into
a box because I
don't think it would have fit.
>>GRACE: No, not at all.
And really studying
ballet taught me
all the skills that I have
learned to defy time and space
and to spirit travel.
I mean, if you think
about it, how many turns
can you do in a count of eight?
It totally changes
your whole perception.
You know this as
a dancer yourself.
It changes your perception
of time and space
because you've got eight counts,
and how many turns can you get?
>>LISA: And you have to
move across the floor
and it's like you're floating.
>>GRACE: Yes, and I remember
being on stage and ready to go
and seeing spirits that
were there in that theater,
standing in the
middle of a stage.
And I'm ready to go
going, get out of the way.
That's crazy.
>>LISA: So this was accepted
for you your whole life,
and you never were afraid
of it, which is amazing.
How did you learn then
to use the energies
to heal and to have your
own healing abilities?
>>GRACE: Well that was a
hard chapter because I really
struggled with it as a
teenager and as a young adult.
I didn't understand it.
I really didn't have
anyone to guide me
until I found my first teacher.
And she is really the person who
saved my life on many levels,
and helped me not only learn
how to work as a healer,
and I studied for a long
time as a hands-on healer.
And then she also
gave me that platform
of how to work with integrity
and truth and clarity and all
the things that one
needs to be in service.
>>LISA: Did you absorb
other people's energies
when you were not aware of
these gifts and talents.
so much in high school?
Was it hard for you
to have relationships?
Did you take everything on?
>>GRACE: It was very hard.
>>LISA: I'm only asking
because if people
have the same experience.
>>GRACE: Yes, of course.
It was very hard,
and I isolated a lot
because I was trying
to deal with the fact
that there were 10 people
in the spirit realm standing
there talking to me.
I was like, why are you here?
And then I would see
colors, massive colors,
in peoples auric fields
when I'd walk around.
It was like, oh my god.
And I'd ask my friends,
did you see that?
That person had orange
all over their face.
And my friends would go, no.
>>LISA: So probably
hard to keep friends?
>>GRACE: Yeah, I was just
I was wide open, wide open.
And I tell you, thank
god for theater and dance
because that truly
channeled all of that energy
and what I was going through
and taught me to ground.
If one thing you learn
when you're a dancer,
it's how to ground your energy.
>>LISA: True.
So then you found
a person, a mentor,
that could really help
you focus and channel all
that you were experiencing.
At what point did you realize
that you could actually travel?
What is spirit traveling?
>>GRACE: OK, so two parts.
The teacher that I had,
she is an amazing healer.
And she's someone who really
helped me define and understand
my gifts.
I'm the only person
that's ever sat with her
and has been able to see her
guides and all of the things
that she was able.
So she really took
me under her wing
and helped me create
who I am really today,
I owe her a lot of credit.
And the second part is in
order to spirit travel,
this has been a process of
me meditating for 36 years.
This is me really
being dedicated
to my process of meditation.
And out of that I started
to experience dissolving.
My whole body, it
dissolves and it's gone.
And it's not until that
moment that my guides then
come in and take
my hand, and we go.
But I don't go anywhere
without my guides.
And my guides are
high-angelic beings.
So I don't travel anywhere.
I'm not astral projecting,
I am literally going,
and I'm going back in time.
>>LISA: How does your body
get taken care of at the time?
How do you keep it
grounded and tethered?
>>GRACE: Well I have a grounding
meditation that I teach
and that is the
basis of my work.
And so I always do my
grounding meditation first.
>>LISA: So that is
really interesting.
You say that you dissolve.
And so you're really
letting Sonja-person go,
and the ego and
the personalities,
so that you can surrender.
And you go on
journeys in the past?
>>GRACE: Yes, I actually
am traveling through time.
And when I spirit travel to
a place, I am back in time.
I've gone back 250,000 years.
I have gone way,
way back in time.
And I do not go
without my guides.
This is totally
directed by my guides.
In fact, when I wrote the
book, "Spirit Traveler,"
my guides came to
me and said, we
want to take you somewhere
and show you this place.
And I ended up at Stonehenge.
But it was their direction,
it was not me saying,
oh, can you please take
me to blah, blah, blah.
>>LISA: When you
say you've gone back
250,000 years, how do you know?
>>GRACE: Right?
Is there guy standing
there with a big clock?
>>LISA: Or a book
that says, this
is what happened
250,000 years ago.
You're like, that's where I was.
>>GRACE: No, my guides
tell me where we are
and what the time period is.
>>LISA: And what did you see?
>>GRACE: Well, the whole
landscape is different.
And everything has a
different look to it.
Where it was once desert
it's green and lush.
And we're talking
about a time period
where giants really
did walk the earth.
And so a lot of that perception
of seeing that particular time
is intimidating.
I remember standing
with my guides
and hiding because
I was so intimidated
by what I was seeing.
>>LISA: So the foliage
was larger, the beings.
Was this around dinosaurs
or way before that?
>>GRACE: Yeah, before.
>>LISA: Before that.
And it was lush and full of
foliage, and you felt small?
>>GRACE: Very.
Very small, and scared.
>>LISA: In a totally
unfamiliar land.
And did you ever go to other
planets, not just this one?
>>GRACE: Yes, many times.
I've been to Pleiades and
Orion and a few other places.
The most amazing
thing that I feel
has come to me as a spirit
traveler is that humans
were brought to earth.
They came to Earth
20 million years ago.
>>LISA: Brought to Earth?
>>GRACE: Well, they
came in a ship.
So somebody flew the ship,
they were brought in.
Humans are as much
extraterrestrial
as extraterrestrials.
So our physical forms, which
have changed over time,
the original model of
humans came to Earth
20 million years ago.
And what I was told
is that we came
from a planet that is in name
the mathematical equation of 0.
0 is the only number
that is not in duality.
And why that's so important is
we live in a dualistic reality.
And we are in the process
right now of experiencing
duality splitting apart.
And we're going to live
in a non-dualistic reality
here within 100 years.
And so the human form is finally
returning back to that state.
>>LISA: That's what
I was going to ask,
is it going back to
its original state?
>>GRACE: Yes.
>>LISA: What made you
decide or think that humans
were brought to the Earth?
Was this a vision that you had?
>>GRACE: Yes, this was
actually a spirit travel
that I did to Egypt.
And it was from that
travel that I was then
shown the original
humans that came through.
>>LISA: So do you physically
go to these locations
or are you traveling
in your meditations?
>>GRACE: I am dissolving
and my soul body
is going to these places.
>>LISA: How long are
you in the meditations?
>>GRACE: And I'm really
out of it when I come back.
>>LISA: You must be.
>>GRACE: Really,
disoriented big time.
>>LISA: That's what I
was asking, how long?
Are you there for hours?
>>GRACE: Sometimes I think
I'm only there 20 minutes
and it's been four hours.
>>LISA: My goodness.
And in those experiences
you come back
with really clear communication.
You remember it all?
>>GRACE: Yes, I do.
It's full-on conversations.
It's been really fun.
When I wrote "Spirit Traveler,"
I write about the actual,
this is what we know, this
is what history has taught us
about Stonehenge or about
Tiwanaku or Chichen Itza,
wherever I've written
about in the book.
And then I give
my spirit travels
and what happened to me.
And that I could feel the rain
on my face, and that I did
wear a coat before I left.
And that I stood
on Skellig Michael,
and there was rain
hitting me from all sides.
And this long line of monks
took me into the beehive huts.
I mean it's incredible,
that's why I wrote the book.
>>LISA: That is very
detailed, extremely detailed,
as if you were there.
Now, do you go back
to these locations
and look and see what it is
that you saw in your visions
to be true?
>>GRACE: I do.
In particular with Stonehenge,
I went to Stonehenge
and had basically
everything that I
received in information
about the place then
was an experience.
That was like, oh, yeah, this
is exactly what I experienced
when I spirit traveled.
>>LISA: Do you go and
experience other history
when you get there, as well?
>>GRACE: Yes, I do.
>>LISA: All right, we're
going to take a look here
at Sonja in a location and
see what she experiences
and how she goes
through the area.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>>GRACE: This site is
called Glenelg Brochs.
This fort it was built
over 2,000 years ago.
Think of how the people
might have lived back then.
It's circular, it had different
levels, different floors to it.
The stonework itself
is incredible.
But this place also
held an energy.
It's circular.
Many things in the world
are circular, especially
in history.
We have the ancient kivas
that Native Americans
used for ceremonial purposes.
We have mounds that are all over
the United Kingdom and Scotland
and Ireland.
There is all kinds
of circular things
that were built
that hold energy.
The energy would come
up through the earth,
not only inside this fort
but in this whole valley.
This land is rich with an
energy that's very ancient
and has to do with the
fairies and the sprites
and all of that natural
energy that the earth holds.
You can still feel it
today but it's much less
than it was back then.
Many of these places are
aligned with the astronomy.
The sun and the moon and the
way that the stars are moving,
everything lines up.
They didn't watch television,
they watched the sky.
>>LISA: What you must
absorb from those locations
is completely different than
what's in the history books,
right?
>>GRACE: Yes, very much.
>>LISA: How do you
deal with that?
What's being taught
about the location
is completely different
than what you know.
>>GRACE: Well in the case
of Saint Winifred's Well,
I think this is a
really good example.
If you grow up Catholic
and you understand
the stories of the saints,
it's very different.
When I went to the well,
I saw Saint Winifred
standing in front of me.
And she said, I want to show
you what really happened back
in my time.
And it's a very sacred place.
The water, it's so beautiful.
And the story goes
in Catholicism
that she was standing on
the steps of the church,
and the man that she jilted
and said she wouldn't marry
rode by on a horse and
lopped her head off.
And her uncle, the
priest, came running out
and magically sewed
her head back on.
Poof!
And she became a saint
and she healed people,
and that's the story.
Well the real story
is she was in love
with a man in the
village who was a pagan.
And it was completely forbidden
because her family was
in the church, and she
was destined to be a nun.
And they took his
head and put it
on a stake to show
the people, this
is what happens if
you are a pagan.
And she was taken
into the church.
And I thought, of course.
And with no ill feelings
towards Catholicism,
but stories do get shifted
because they become teaching
tools for the religion
or the politicians
or whoever is in charge.
>>LISA: Did you see any evidence
of a stake or anything that
would have made sense to that
story when you were there?
>>GRACE: Well when she
showed me what happened
I saw the whole thing happen.
We were back in time, she
took me into the village,
I saw the men grab the guy.
And the one thing
that happened to me
that was really spectacular.
I don't know if it's the
last "Star Wars" movie,
but Luke Skywalker is
on Skellig Michael.
And I didn't know this.
And I'm watching the
movie with my husband,
and all of a sudden I
see the beehive huts
and I'm going, that's
Skellig Michael.
I'm yelling in the theater.
People are turning
around looking at me.
And it was spectacular because
all the places that they went,
it was like, yes,
that's where I was.
That's where I went.
It was such a great
moment for me.
>>LISA: Well let's
take a look at you
actually in the
physical locations.
>>GRACE: This particular
site is Croft Moraig,
and it's outside of
Perth in Scotland.
It is a really obscure but
magnificent stone circle
on a farm.
And we went there
and did some filming.
And it was a very weird feeling.
All of these stone
circles or portals.
And this particular place,
although it's still a portal,
had a lot of history where
people had fought and died.
And so the whole vibe of that
stone circle had been askewed.
And it had some very odd vibes.
>>LISA: So it still
has that energy in it.
Did you spirit travel to the
location before you got there?
>>GRACE: Yes, I did.
And there were a lot of ghosts
around the stone circle.
So we were dealing with a
lot of different energies
while we were there.
And it was disruptive,
whereas I've
been in other stone
circles where the energy is
much cleaner and clearer.
>>LISA: What was
it historically?
Did it match what
you experienced?
>>GRACE: Yes, it did.
OK, historically, there's
at least 1,000 stone circles
in the UK.
And these different
stone circles
have been placed,
in my understanding,
to mark the portal of which
energy is either coming through
from above or it's coming
from the Earth, going out.
Or like Stonehenge, it's both.
And so this particular stone
circle had energy going out.
So we all felt it.
It was almost like
felt like we kept
dispersing in all
these directions
while we were in the circle.
It was very odd.
>>LISA: Do you know how those
massive stones got there?
>>GRACE: Well the
ancient ones showed me
all of the different layers
of things that happened.
Because when I first
went to Stonehenge,
there was nothing
on Salisbury Plain.
It was totally empty.
And so the people
back in 8,000 BC
marked these portals with
branches and garlands
and small stones.
And then of course the wooden
henge was built through time.
And then around 4,000 BC the
sarsen stones were placed.
And the ancient ones showed me
how they literally levitated
these stones into place.
Seriously, they are massive.
So it only makes
sense that there
was some other technology that
was used to place these stones.
>>LISA: That's
the great mystery.
>>GRACE: That's what I saw.
>>LISA: In your spirit travels?
>>GRACE: Yes.
>>LISA: Got it.
>>GRACE: And Stonehenge has
burial mounds around it.
So a lot of archaeologists
and historians
believe oh, this must have
been a death ritual place.
That's not what happened at all.
This was a place for fertility.
This is where, I call
them the ancient ones--
they're Pleiadians,
but they're demigods--
they would come through and
teach the high priestesses
the ceremonies.
And this Stonehenge
was used for fertility.
So all of the high
priestesses would basically
cross-pollinate
with the star beings
and bring forth a
new race of beings.
And that's what's happened
all over the earth.
Oh yeah, the demigods who
we can look to as aliens,
but they're much
more benevolent.
They're much bigger,
they're 12, 15 feet tall.
>>LISA: Now when
you go there and you
experience all of this
story, history is a story.
It's a story.
>>GRACE: Yes.
And the story is based on who's
in charge, who's in power,
and what religion is
the focus of the people.
I mean look at history
and how many rulers
have been completely wiped out.
Nobody knows that they ruled
because the next person didn't
want them known.
>>LISA: We've seen that time
and time again in history.
We now are seeing so
many things exposed.
The Catholic Church has
been exposed in many ways.
And banking systems are exposed.
And there's so many things.
The truth is finally coming out.
Why do you think that is?
>>GRACE: Because we're now
in the fifth dimension.
We have moved from
the fourth dimension
into the fifth dimension.
When the Mayan calendar
ended it didn't
mean the world was
ending, it meant
we're making a
dimensional change.
And in this higher frequency
of the fifth dimension
we have moved literally
into the throat chakra.
This is all about
us communicating,
being more telepathic
with each other,
and expressing who we are.
And I'm serious when
I say if you could
give a microphone to every
person on the planet,
they've got something to say.
I hear it all day
long with my clients.
I want to be a public
speaker, I want
to be able to tell my story.
And it's powerful, because
people have something to say.
And it has to do with
this energy we're in.
It's really exposing the truth.
>>LISA: I'm so glad you
said that because I'd
like to take what you're talking
about in these experiences
and bring it to a
grounded reality,
and how people can use it today.
And you're a very
grounded person.
And you're in the
world, and you're
working, and your healing,
and you're working with people
all the time.
How does it apply to
practical everyday life
when you bring about
this information
and in these travels?
>>GRACE: Well when I
work with my clients,
which is over the phone because
I do all long-distance work,
I'm constantly helping people
understand that we cannot
expect this fifth dimension
energy to meet us,
we have to meet it.
It is really up to
us to do the work.
We have to go
inside and excavate
all the emotional
wounds and understand
that those emotional wounds
are the karmic threads
to our past lives.
And that if we heal
in this lifetime,
we will start to heal
in past lifetimes.
And we will be able
to make that jump of,
why do I feel abandoned and
why does everybody leave me?
And then understand that
in the last 10 lifetimes
they've been left or
abandoned, or the tribe
picked up and moved and
they were left behind.
We have to start
connecting history
because we're working in cycles.
We are cycling all the time.
>>LISA: So how does
talking about the past
and the karmic threads and
everything help humanity
going forward?
>>GRACE: Because
humanity as a soul group,
we have collective
karma together.
We have karma in fear,
we have karma in shock,
we have karma in
abandonment and betrayal.
All of us as people share
the collective karma.
And in that we have
cycles, and these cycles
go round and round.
If you look at history, this
happened, then this happened,
then this happened.
And here we are again.
This is happening, then
this is going to happen,
and then this is
going to happen.
And it is up to us to really
do the work on the inner
so that we can
change that cycle.
>>LISA: What is the cycle?
Where are we heading?
>>GRACE: Well we are coming to
the end of a phase of humanity.
So the long story of
this is most of us
came through during
Atlantis and Lemuria.
And we said, yes, I want
to be here on Earth,
and I want to be a part
of the human experience.
So we've had hundreds
of lifetimes.
And now we're coming to the
end of this phase of humanity,
which is why people
want answers,
people want to know who
they are spiritually.
>>LISA: The stakes are higher.
>>GRACE: The stakes are higher.
And our children,
our grandchildren,
our great grandchildren are the
ones who will carry the torch
and move into the next
phase of humanity.
So that is all getting
passed on to them.
And the cycle that we're
in is all of these feelings
that I just talked about.
We just went through shock,
we've moved into fear,
and we're going to
come around the bend
to some kind of betrayal.
As a collective, we're
working through the emotions
because our emotions are
the very thing that we
have in common.
You feel love, I feel love.
>>LISA: True, they are.
Now you said the
end of humanity.
You don't mean that the
human race is going to die.
Is it going to be transformed?
>>GRACE: It's the end
of a phase of humanity.
So we're transforming again.
And then the
children, the babies
that are being born now,
they are the ones that
will take the torch and
start a new face of humanity,
just like we did.
>>LISA: Just like we
did when we were little?
But the youth of today,
like the Parkland kids
and that type of
generation, they're
moving into the truth phase?
Is that the next phase?
>>GRACE: Well we're
in truth because we're
in this fifth
dimension, but we're
going through these
karmic emotional pieces.
>>LISA: So we're going
through these phases
and then we hit betrayal.
Are we in that phase
right now of betrayal?
>>GRACE: Yes.
We recently went through
fear and then shock
and now betrayal.
And betrayal for us as a
species is things more related
to duality splitting apart.
So we have governments failing,
we have things being exposed.
Remember, we're in
that fifth dimension
so things are getting uncovered.
>>LISA: Systems failing.
>>GRACE: Systems failing and
hacking and unbelievable things
happening to our own
computers, let alone computers
around the world.
So this is all a part
of that betrayal.
>>LISA: So I would think
we're still in shock.
But yes, the financial
system has become exposed.
There's the health
care system exposed,
there's the political
system exposed.
We're going to get to
schools pretty soon.
Yeah, there's a lot.
>>GRACE: There is.
>>LISA: But it's
getting to the truth?
>>GRACE: Yes, and we're cycling,
literally, these feelings.
Because when we're
born we're handed
a palette like a painter.
And we have all of
our emotions on it.
And every day, we're like, oh,
I think I'll paint some joy
and now I think I'll paint
some sadness and maybe
a little betrayal.
And so we're painting our world
with this emotional palette.
And as a whole species,
we share a palette.
And the feelings that we're
working through right now
are the karmic piece,
or the collective karma,
that we as a species
are tackling.
Well or not well, it's up to us.
>>LISA: So as a species, we're
going through this together.
How we manage it is
through our emotions.
And we can choose
to have and paint
an emotion of action that day,
or an emotion of joy that day,
or an emotion of love, or
an emotion of whatever it
is that moves it forward.
And then where are
we going after this?
>>GRACE: I vote the love paint.
So after betrayal
we're going to move
into a feeling of resentment.
We're going to go
through resentment.
And then we're going to
come out of resentment
and go into this new more of an
awakening, like an aha moment.
The collective
consciousness, everybody
goes, oh, I didn't look
at it from that direction.
But we're going to hit
that resentment first.
>>LISA: So hit resentment after
betrayal, which makes sense,
and then go into an awareness.
>>GRACE: It's an aha moment.
>>LISA: A heightened awareness?
>>GRACE: Yes.
Yes.
>>LISA: That is very important.
That I would love.
A consciously
aware, awake world.
I'll take it.
>>GRACE: Me too.
So what's next is we
are going to evolve.
So the Earth is going
to change, she's
going to have all kinds of
disruption, as she always has.
And we're going to
evolve as a species.
We're going to watch
duality split apart.
Some people will make
this kind of decision,
some people will make
this kind of decision.
>>LISA: So we'll
be more polarized?
>>GRACE: Yes.
And then we will
have a breakthrough
where, like I said, the younger
generations will get to ride
that wave of the golden era.
And it's our job to help them
to usher them into that place.
>>LISA: That's why a show
like this is so important.
That's why talking about
inspirations as something that
improves the
quality of your life
and really moves humanity
forward is so important.
And you're seeing
the same thing?
>>GRACE: Yes, every day.
I work with clients
all day long,
and I see people struggling,
feeling hopelessness,
feeling like they're not
going to get through.
And I help them reignite
what their purpose is,
why they need to be
there for their children
and their grandchildren, why
it's so important that we have
clean water, and
we have clean air,
and we have soil that we
can plant healthy food in.
>>LISA: So how do you help with
that level of hopelessness?
>>GRACE: I do a lot of
processing work with them.
I work with the inner child.
I help them by excavating
emotional wounds,
finding where the
betrayal is in their body
and lifting that out.
Working on them physically.
Say there's a liver problem, I
go in and restructure the liver
and repair tissue.
>>LISA: Can you do
that with humanity?
Wouldn't you think?
How can we create that
same level of healing
with our planet, with humanity?
How do we do that?
>>GRACE: I love your mind.
>>LISA: I'm going big, girl.
Go big or go home.
>>GRACE: Well I
think that the way
to do that is to first of
all, in what I teach, teach
people how to meditate
and how to ground.
And people think of
meditation, and a lot of times
they go right into their
third eye and think,
oh yeah, that's where--
I teach a completely
different form of meditation
because I'm a firm believer
that why we're here on Earth
is to ground our
energy into the Earth.
That the Earth is here
to give us energy.
And if we're spending all of
our time sending our energy out
into other things,
that's actually
how we're creating more
karma for ourselves.
>>LISA: By putting
our energy out?
>>GRACE: Yes.
So let's say you're
watching TV, and there's
some disaster that happened.
And you're feeling
just horrible,
and your energy from your third
or maybe even your second--
a lot of empaths will
understand what I'm saying--
will go out to the television
and go into the whole thing.
And yes, you want
to support that.
But this is not the
way to support it
because now you're hooking up
with those people, their fear,
their anxiety, their
betrayal, everything,
and you're creating more karma.
You're becoming a part
of the collective karma.
Where the energy should
go is into the ground.
And I teach a meditation that's
in "Become an Earth Angel"
that is cones of energy
that send that energy down
into the Earth.
So you're receiving
energy from the Earth,
you're sending energy down.
But you're not sending it out.
Now from here if you want to
send love energy out, of course
you should.
We're here to love at the
deepest level of our being.
>>LISA: So the energy
you're sending down
is the negativity and the fear.
>>GRACE: No, it's
all your energy.
It is your energy
connecting to the Earth.
It's everything.
>>LISA: So when you
watch that type of media,
and you see it everywhere,
you can't avoid it,
it's in the aethers.
You basically just
ground your own body?
>>GRACE: Yes, you
ground your energy.
>>LISA: And receive, then,
energy from the Earth,
who will constantly give.
>>GRACE: Absolutely,
she's so there for us.
Oh my goodness.
I mean, think of the
support she gives us daily.
>>LISA: She tries.
And then we can then
mix that with love?
And send that out to humanity.
And that's how we start to
change the global conversation?
>>GRACE: Yes, exactly, because
love will supersede everything.
Even in the darkest moments,
And that's the most important
thing everyone can remember.
Even if you're in
a really dark place
and you can't think of
anything, think of the love
that you have for your
child or for your dog
or for your partner.
That love is what keeps
us really evolving.
>>LISA: When you are
working with people
and if they have an
illness, is that what you do
is you go into
that place of love
to expand or to break
up that illness?
>>GRACE: I always work
in a state of love,
but I'm actually
more like a surgeon.
And I'm going in and
literally putting in a stent
and doing what is the
equivalency of a triple bypass.
I'm literally using my hands
and working like a surgeon.
>>LISA: Like a
psychic surgeon so
to speak, without the blood
and manifestation of it?
>>GRACE: Yeah, no
gauze, no blood.
>>LISA: So I wanted
to go back to when
you go to these
locations, is there
a specific location that
you remember that you
felt that incredible love?
We have a picture here.
And seeing some
of your pictures,
the way that the light
comes through and orbs
come up here and so forth.
It's incredible.
This one's a beautiful
beaming of love.
>>GRACE: Yes, I was
actually in prayer.
It makes me want to cry.
I was in prayer at one of
my meditation retreats,
and my assistant
took that photograph.
And it was amazing because
the whole group saw it.
I was holding tobacco in
my hand and I was praying.
And that beam of
light just came down
and went right into my hand.
It makes me tear up
to even talk about it.
It was really amazing.
>>LISA: What a beautiful moment.
And this other
gorgeous picture, and I
believe that your husband
took this picture--
we've got to give him credit--
of you standing in the tor.
>>GRACE: The tor, yes.
>>LISA: And this is the
Tower of St. Michael?
>>GRACE: It is the
Tower of St. Michael,
and it's the Glastonbury Tor.
It's right outside of
the town of Glastonbury.
And it's on a hill, and
it's just spectacular.
And it's quite a mission that
you take to climb the hill.
It's very steep and it's long.
>>LISA: Did you spirit
travel there first?
>>GRACE: I did not.
We actually went there because
I wanted to really connect
with that energy.
Certainly St. Michael
and all of the angels,
I felt the angels
there big time.
>>LISA: Tell us what
you experienced.
>>GRACE: Well I work with
the archangels every day
in my work, but I
saw all of the angels
come through while
we were at the tor.
And I see angels all the time so
it's not like it was like, wow,
there's angels.
But I felt their
presence at this site
because mostly what I
was feeling at the site
was some of the
hardship and things
that people had gone
through in history.
There was a lot of
fighting and war
and things that
happened in the UK.
>>LISA: Absolutely.
And so this journey for you was
touching and feeling the walls
and experiencing that
energy of the archangels.
It's a great way to travel.
That's a great way to go
and experience something.
Rather than just looking
and reading the plaques
on the walls, feel
what's happening there
and intuit it in your own sense
what may be happening there.
>>GRACE: Absolutely.
I felt a lot of
things at the tor.
I felt a lot of the history,
the fighting, the things that
went on there, but also
the beauty of that site.
>>LISA: This is funny, because
I see you touching the bricks
in a lot of the photos, and I've
always been the type of person
that does that, too.
I love going to historic
areas and touching the bricks
because they have seen so much.
And if they could talk,
they could tell the truth.
Is that what you experience?
>>GRACE: I do.
I pick up a lot of energy
when I touch the stones
or wherever I am.
Some places it's been, OK.
>>LISA: It's a good
thing for someone to try.
If they want to go and
experience the energy.
You would think a brick wall
wouldn't give you anything,
a stone wall, but it does.
>>GRACE: Oh, let me
tell you, some of those
castles in England.
There's so much history.
And you don't have to
touch the wall to feel it,
but you feel it just
walking through for sure.
>>LISA: Let's take a look
here at Sonja talking about
her book, "Spirit Traveler."
>>NARRATOR: Spirit
traveling through the ages,
Sonja Grace answers
the questions
that have mystified
historians for centuries.
>>GRACE: And we're experiencing
something that is not exactly
the way history recorded it.
>>NARRATOR: She
receives the truth
of why these ancient
sites were built.
With all that she learns,
Sonja travels in real time
to each one of
these famous sites.
Using her unique talents,
she listens to the stones,
tunes into the
energies, and validates
the truths she learned
in her spirit travels.
>>GRACE: And the ancient
ones would take them
into the center of this space
that's now called the Cove,
and they would assess what
their healing problems were.
They would assess
what they needed.
These stones were placed
by the ancient ones.
They have the essence of the
ancient ones inside of them.
And it was their last
statement to the people,
we will always be with
you, but we're not
coming back for a long time.
>>NARRATOR: The world is
full of mysterious places.
From the monoliths of
Great Britain and Ireland
to the ancient
Egyptian pyramids,
from Bolivia's strange
Tiwanaku The Gate of the Sun
to the temple of
Chichen Itza, there
is so many questions unanswered.
Sonja Grace unlocks ancient
mysteries and secrets
of the world's greatest
historic sites.
>>LISA: So you travel
in your meditations,
you travel physically to these
locations, you do it all.
Your life as a spirit
traveler, what a unique life.
What an amazing life.
And you embrace it all.
How do you not pick up
these energies, though,
and take them with you?
So for example, you're
in a location and being
or a guide sticks to you.
Do you ever have a hard
time shaking that off?
>>GRACE: No.
But OK, again, a
gift that I have
is the ability to clear
things from people.
Entities, aliens,
implants, demons.
I mean, I've done complete
exorcisms of people.
And I feel that this is a gift
because I've never really met
anybody who can do it on the
level that I'm able to see.
I'm able to see all
levels of the astral plane
from angels down to the lowest
entity demon kind of things.
>>LISA: And you're
not afraid of them?
>>GRACE: And I'm not afraid.
And I am able to clear
these things out.
So when I go to places, if
we stay in a haunted hotel,
I always clear the room and
make sure everything is out.
>>LISA: You have to teach
us how to do that, though.
What are some good
tools that we can
use, because we go into
plenty of haunted hotel?
>>GRACE: I know that it's
not possible to travel
with cedar all the time but
it's really great if you
can get some cedar.
A lot of the spiritual
community has
an idea that sage is
what clear things,
but sage actually
blesses things.
And cedar is used to clear.
So I really urge people to
get some cedar and cedar
out your body, your house.
And that's a really good
tool to clear things.
>>LISA: It's a good thing
to put in a suitcase, too.
That's a great idea.
All right, let's
take a look here
at another beautiful
picture of you
in the middle of
a mountain range.
What is this?
And this beautiful dress.
>>GRACE: This is actually almost
at the top of the mountain
at a place in Scotland
on the Isle of Skye
called the Fairy Pools.
And it's a series of pools
that are just beautiful.
They're very magical.
The water is unbelievable,
you want to bless yourself
with this water.
Beautiful, turquoise blue pools.
And our driver said,
yes, you should hike up
to the very top pool because
it's the most spectacular.
And I had this
blue dress with me
that I was carrying
just in a bag
that we were going to
do a photo shoot in.
And we walked by all
the Fairy Pools going,
oh, well we're not
at the last one yet.
And we hiked I think for
two hours to the very top
and then finally
realized, oh, we
went way past the Fair Pools.
So we went ahead and
did a photo shoot.
And it was just was so funny.
Our driver was so
worried about us
because three hours
later we came back
and he was scared we
were gone forever.
But this mountain,
it was so magical.
And it was one of those
moments like right out of "Lord
of the Rings" where you go, wow,
we are in a very magical place.
That landscape all around me
in the summertime turns purple.
It's heather.
>>LISA: Wow.
Where is this?
>>GRACE: On the Isle
of Skye in Scotland.
>>LISA: And the Fairy Pools,
is that what they're called?
>>GRACE: They're
Fairy Pools, yes.
You can ask anybody.
You can even ask anybody, I
want to go to the Fairy Pools
and they'll tell
you where they are.
>>LISA: And because of
the color, and the energy,
you said, is very
intense and beautiful.
>>GRACE: There were, literally,
the tribe known as Fairies
standing all along these pools.
These tall, really
beautiful beings
that I saw throughout
Scotland and the UK,
they told me that
they are the Fairies,
that they are the
tribe of beings
that are magical beings that
were there to help the people.
And they were just exquisite.
>>LISA: Wow, that's amazing.
You could go, and
you could feel you
could tap into
these energies based
on your stories and your
books and really experience
the culture in a different ways.
It's a whole new
level of tourism.
You actually do, you take groups
there, in various locations.
Where have you gone with groups?
>>GRACE: I've taught several
retreats up in Scotland.
And also I've taught in England.
And I just love being able
to share that with people
and have them feel the energy
and talk to them about what's
going on there.
>>LISA: What's your
favorite place?
Do you have one?
>>GRACE: My favorite place
in terms of spirit travels
is Hagar Qim, and this
is on the Isle of Malta.
It's considered the oldest
religious ceremonial site
on the planet.
And it's huge,
huge, huge stones.
And it's this maze of rooms.
And I have a whole chapter
on it in "Spirit Traveler,"
but it is incredible because the
woman, the being, the goddess
who takes care of it,
was there to greet me
when I spirit traveled there.
And she walked me through
this long hallway,
and she had me experience what
they were the caretakers of,
which was duality.
And I walked into the one
room and it was bliss.
It was like my whole
being went into bliss.
I never wanted to
leave that room.
And I came out and she
sent me into the next room,
and it was terror.
It was the scariest,
worst feelings
I've ever felt in my life, and
I came out of there really fast.
And I stood in the middle and
she said, we are in that time--
and she's still there--
the caretakers of this
energy called duality.
And we kept the Earth
in balance by keeping
these two rooms,
these two spaces,
we kept the world in balance.
>>LISA: What must she
think now about the Earth
being so out of balance?
>>GRACE: Well yes, and of course
Hagar Qim is a ruins site now.
It's not in its full glory.
The thing about the
demigods is that they know
about the changes that happen.
They understand duality
is splitting apart,
and they understand that
we're making a big shift
as a race of beings.
So they're here to help us.
They've never gone away,
they've never gone away.
Well I think about
all the people
who are connected to
the Egyptian gods.
And they call on Sekhmet,
they call on Ra, Hathor,
they call on the gods.
I mean, I think
that's is something
that we do still today.
Different cultures, different
places all over the earth
still look to them.
>>LISA: Absolutely, faith,
it's all about faith.
And whatever it is that
you are faithful to,
you can call on
that level of faith
and ask for help for our planet.
And there are a lot
of things being done,
but it's got to still stay into
a place of deep prayer, asking,
and faith, and action.
>>GRACE: Yes.
And by going into deep prayer
and faith and meditation,
we have the ability as
people to access inner peace
because inner peace
is in our soul body,
it's what we came here with.
And so in the
fourth dimension, we
spent a long time trying to
find peace outside of ourselves.
That's what duality
does, duality takes us
outside of ourselves.
And you and I might
look at something
and go, oh, that's bad.
Or we might look at something
and go, oh, that's really good.
But we've looked
outside of ourselves
to measure whether it's
good or bad, right or wrong.
And inner peace allows
us to stand in the center
and really access
that inner measuring
system we have in our soul
body, which is the good and bad,
right and wrong that we
innately came here with.
>>LISA: As humans, we
were delivered with good
and bad, right and
wrong, weren't we?
I want to ask you
about your new book,
"Dancing with Raven and Bear."
First, let's take a
look at the trailer.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>>GRACE: The journey
of my ancestors
began in two different worlds.
One in the north where
Odin and the Norse gods
wove tales of magic, and one
in the south where my Hopi
ancestors called
to me from the past
and show me the
magic of the Earth.
When Raven and Bear came
into my life, I was a child.
And through my art I
brought them into reality.
They are powerful teachers,
and they guide the reader
through life challenges
like releasing pain, mending
a broken heart, and holding
darkness and depression at bay.
The Earth teaches
Bear about dreaming
and the messages
hidden in our dreams.
A star being traveling
the galaxy listening
to the songs each planet sings
hears the distinctive voice
of Bear.
This encounter helps
us to understand
the magic of the universe.
Earth medicine is potent,
and Raven and Bear
discover that each element on
Earth holds a lesson for us.
The animals teach us what it
means to walk a medicine path,
and why that road is
fraught with danger
and not for everyone.
The voice of my ancestors take
me to a place that is still.
There I experience the
Earth and her teachings.
It is her voice that echoes
through these stories, guiding
Raven and Bear and
showing us the medicine
and the magic of her realm.
>>LISA: Tell me the
story of Raven and Bear
in a quick way, if you can.
>>GRACE: I have always been
connected to Raven and Bear.
I'm an artist, I've been an
artist since I began dancing.
I was also painting.
My mom's an artist.
So while I danced, I also
painted and drew pictures.
And Raven and Bear were
always a part of my art
since I was a child.
And I did not realize
how much I was tapping
into my Native
American heritage,
being Choctaw and Cherokee,
and also my Norwegian heritage.
So all of my connections to
my heritages has come through.
And I tell these stories
of Raven and Bear
in my Native tradition.
>>LISA: So Raven is one
character and Bear is
the other, and they
represent both of your--
>>GRACE: They represent
all of my heritage.
But I share these stories
more in my Native heritage.
Raven's are
trickster and someone
who is always helping Bear.
And Bear as a
medicine man who is
helping people and the world.
And each story is
about different things
that we all deal with.
Dealing with loss and
pain, dealing with death,
dealing with love,
dealing with having
a calling to be a spiritual
healer or someone who
is helping people.
All of these stories
throughout the book
are helping the
reader better define
what their relationship
is to that emotion
and how they can best navigate.
>>LISA: So different
pieces of themselves
they'll find in Raven or Bear.
>>GRACE: In both, yes.
>>LISA: In both,
throughout the whole story.
And this is the newest
book that's coming out.
>>GRACE: Yes, and
my original artwork
is all through the book.
I'm very excited about that.
>>LISA: Yeah, as an artist,
it must be exciting.
Yes, I know we have
Raven and Bear on.
>>GRACE: I have Raven
on, you have Bear on.
>>LISA: Sonja made
these, they're great.
So I always ask my
guests, in the end,
what is your biggest why?
Why do you do what you do?
>>GRACE: And I love that
question, because what I ask
is, why not?
Why not, why not let go
of what you're resisting?
Why not let go of
that story that you've
been telling since 1974?
We've heard it a hundred times.
Why not let go of the
pain and suffering
and whatever it is that we
identify with as who we are?
Why not just for a moment
let go and experience
what I just talked
about, that inner peace?
Experience who you are
through meditation,
experience releasing
the emotional wounds
that we've carried for so long.
And if people hear me say this
and go, but I don't know how,
they should call me.
And secondly, they
should also really
think about what you
mentioned, which is faith.
Because that's a really big
part of how we as a species
will continue on is faith.
>>LISA: Forever, we always have.
It's always been like that.
Belief, belief, belief,
in whatever it is.
And then belief got control
because people in power
realized the value of
belief and how strong
it can influence a culture.
And it was misused for a
while, and it still has been.
But now I think, and
what you're saying,
and what your
example really is, is
someone who can have
their own belief
and really make a difference
in the world with it.
And it's up to you individually
to make that difference.
And so you're a
perfect example of how
individual people can make
such a difference in the world.
I think so.
Well thank you so
much for sharing
your journeys and
your travels with us,
and showing us a whole new
way of spirit traveling.
And also teaching us about
our own healing abilities.
Thank you very much.
And if you'd like to watch
more inspirational programming,
you can check out my show,
which is "Inspirations" on Gaia.
I'm Lisa Garr and
until next time,
I invite you to stay aware.
[MUSIC PLAYING]